today's conversation there's a there's a
lot to learn from today's conversation
the first thing that i want to talk a
little bit about
is inappropriate affect and so sometimes
like over the course of today people may
notice that
you know there's like it feels kind of
weird as they're watching the
interaction
and that just tells you that there's
like some parts of your brain that are
able to like
clue in and like something's not adding
up here
and so we'll we'll really see like this
connection between
inappropriate affect and like suppressed
emotions and that the more you
familiarize yourself with this the more
that you dig into this like that's where
there's stuff underneath
also really a great exploration of of
psychological defense mechanisms
because we see them all in action and at
the end of the day
you know someone was kind enough to come
on and share
their experience of growing up in a cult
welcome buddy hey nice over here
um so and what's your name what do you
go by uh you can call me zorian
missourian okay welcome zorian
and so i i didn't realize this until i
you know hit the go live button on
stream but apparently we're gonna be
you're you were a
member of a cult before yes i was a
cultist
okay oh a cultist so that that sounds
like
that sounds like a class you know it
makes it sound fancier right
yeah and and um people are curious are
you're a cultist of of our cult or a
different cult
different different cult okay so maybe
we can convert you by the end
um yeah so brainwashed i was brainwashed
oh
okay so
um is that what you want to talk about
today or you want to talk about
something else or
yes so we can talk about that and i was
thinking maybe
uh we can talk about the psychological
the harm it did to me i suppose like the
insecurities i have because i grew up in
that environment or
what happened after leaving yeah
zorin i would love to hear about that
and if there's some way that
that you know we can support you with
some of that stuff i'd
really love to try um so why don't we
start with um
you know kind of like how you joined
or actually let's start with like like
where you grew up and stuff like
you know okay so here's how i joined
i that's all was born
okay so tell us a little bit about you
know what
growing up was third third generation
third
okay wow like my parents were already in
the cold when i
when i joined okay when you were born
sure you can call it that okay and do
you feel comfortable telling us like
what the cult
was or is that something you want to you
know we don't want to do anything that
will
get you in trouble or anything like that
it's not a big deal okay yeah so what
can you tell us about the
like what growing up was like in the
cult
yes so you asked earlier what the cult
was about
did you okay sure so
it's it was a sex cult okay the leader
was a pedophile
okay oh god yes
what does that mean it was a sex cult
like what is the
okay so the cult had a tradition
of free sex okay
and uh the idea was there was a
tradition called
flirty fishing where women
would give like they would prostitute
themselves
to gain converts to gain comforts
converts to converts okay okay
conversions yeah
yeah and and like so is this like an
organization or what like how does
this it's called the family
international
the fourth or the children of god have
you heard of it and
no but what is that does that sound like
a call dude
the family internet it up oh wikipedia
look it up
okay sometime so can you tell us zorian
a little bit about like you know
what tell us maybe a little bit about
your parents and
and what it was like living with them
growing up
sure so i had a
kind of a unique situation uh even
inside the cult because my parents
were missionaries for the cult okay
uh they what they would do is they would
go around from city to city
proselytizing okay yeah
and as a result life growing up was
we would resettle every 18 to 24 months
okay new house new home new neighborhood
a new city
different country etc and and how would
they
proselytize
so we would go out
and let me see if i can remember exactly
so
we would get people interested about the
cold like maybe
try to shame them or guilt-trip and
guilt-trip them
into their negative habits
and then they would we would tell them
about jesus
right and we would get them to
say a prayer and then we would like
my parents how they did it was
from what i recall vaguely they did a
sales pitch
on the the cult i think
okay and just getting people to join
that was the idea um
so zorian can we actually take a step
back from the cult for a minute and like
just what was it
like growing up for you like were you in
school
and like siblings i was i was
i was homeschooled a lot okay so
and social interaction was limited
for example no no like i had no access
to books
no accident like unsaid there was heavy
sensors censorship
no books no internet no music except
music designed by the cult
no magazines nothing nothing that could
harm the image
in our heads of the cult and what was
the
clue what was the image that you grew up
with of the cult
um so i felt like we were the chosen
ones
okay can you tell me a little bit about
that yeah sure so
so let's see so the cult was rife with
conspiracy theories
like there was this this idea that the
illuminati
was pulling the world strings and that
the system
anything outside the cult was evil
right kind of scare us from trying to um
access outside information right
okay and they try to instill
a sense of superiority in us
to try and push non-believers away so
that we wouldn't get contaminated
right that's that's my analysis
yeah and and so if you if your parents
move to a new city like i'm curious when
you're like eight years old
and you don't go to school and you're
not given access to books or the
internet like literally how would you
spend your day
like what so that's interesting when i
was um
so let's be let's be
a little bit more into details so i went
to a regular school
second grade and third grade okay and
then from fourth grade up
my parents decided to homeschool me
completely because uh
i don't know what the reason was
actually i think i begged
i begged them to homeschool me
maybe that was my fault um
do you remember how you felt when you
begged them
yes so i was constantly bullied okay
and um so i had okay
so i the reason why i backed them to
homeless homes homeschooled me was
because before second grade they were
already homeschooling i see oh
so so they were homeschooling you then
you went to second grade and
do you have a sense of why you got
bullied
i was
so it's very very long time back but
a lot of times people don't remember no
i think it was uh i had a sense of being
holier than you
okay so so it was sort of like a
superiority kind of thing that was baked
into you
okay and then yeah so once you started
getting homeschooled then what was that
what were your days like i would
receive classes in the morning i guess
oh yeah so there's there was this thing
um this horrible horrible tradition
so i hate it absolutely called
devotionals
which is like um
mandated brainwashing
uh routine activities
shall we call it like okay so my parents
would gather us children
for um a time of
prayer you could say you could call them
and we'll read the bible we will read
materials like written or published by
the cult
uh would listen to music we would pray
we would do stuff like that memorize
bible verses that kind of stuff
okay we're listening to music designed
by the cult
and how long would those devotionals
last like
anywhere from one to two hours okay so
you would do that every day and so it
sounds like you're
you were also learning like mathematics
and how to read and things like that
yes yes and so
i it's kind of an unusual circumstance
because i was
taught i guess
these things um from a very early age
like my parents
believed in education which was abnormal
for the cult
so i was taught to read and write in two
languages from the age of two
i was taught early math i was taught
uh geography i was
taught from earlier age okay
and then what were things like as you
grew a little bit older like let's say
12 13
15 17. so so
actually before we go into the
adolescent period yeah
i would also my parents would take me
proselytizing like
yeah it's fine that's hard you have to
pronounce that but
i i have this vivid memory of me
going like up to people
and converting them to the cult
how would you do that i was i was like
six or seven years old and they
basically
used my cuteness my because
children are cute right they you give
you're more likely to give a
child a chance yeah sure than an adult
yep right so they would use me as a tool
sometimes
to convert people and i had
like i had a like a little speech
memorized
that i would do and people would fall
for it it was
do you remember what the speech was or
like pieces of it
oh let me see and you know sorry you
don't have to share anything that you
don't feel comfortable with
it's just i'm i'm so curious about you
know what
what do you teach a seven-year-old to
say
to convert people to your
so uh the facade
seemed very harmless right uh
even to outsiders i would basically pray
with them
and they would i would recite a prayer
and like i would convince people to
say a prayer with me
and i don't remember the exact words but
it was something like jesus coming to my
heart forgive me for my sins that kind
of [ __ ]
okay and then and
wow okay so
and then maybe what my parents would
take over and explain
stuff and a little and stuff i couldn't
comprehend yet
okay what country were you in if you
don't mind me asking
i think so at the time of this anecdote
i think i was in peru
okay all right and and so
you know what what happened is you kind
of grew up and hit adolescence
what was that period of your life like
okay so let's see i was very very
convinced that i wanted to spend the
rest of my life
in the school okay um
we were taught that we were the chosen
ones and
there were all sorts of like wacky
things going on for example
a lot of the lore was based on
okay are you familiar with the bible
yeah
there's a book at the end called
revelations yeah very familiar with it
a lot of the stuff came from
that chapter or that book in the bible
um it was very we were our group was the
chosen one
and there was gonna be a lot a period of
seven years
before the end of the world as we know
and
the anti-antichrist was gonna take over
from like uh
the illuminati and whatever [ __ ]
they were experiencing
and our group would have special powers
to attack or defend against
uh who like the antichrist or whoever
was on top right
and there were like doomsday prophecies
and that
we were living like one of the phrases
that was most commonly repeated was
we are living in the times of the end
right yeah wow okay
so things i've heard from god zorian so
i i'm
so sometimes you know i'll ask people a
little bit about growing up in their
adolescence and things like that
and and i'm kind of noticing that i
don't know
it's interesting i it seems like
sometimes when i ask you questions about
time
it's like hard for you to put together
like sort of a timeline
and and i mean is that i'm not trying to
you know shame you or anything it's just
an interesting observation that i'm i'm
wondering if actually like
your experience of growing up was not
like
marked by like landmarks of change
it seems to like oh it feels to me like
it all kind of blurs together
yes right and it's also the fact that
i've been trying to forget most of these
things
for the last 10 years sure okay
like after i left at the age of 18. i
felt like i left
and how did that happen my parents
i love them deeply they
my dad had this policy that after you're
you can do whatever whatever the [ __ ]
you want
right okay
so at close around the age of 17 i was
already getting fed up with the [ __ ]
what is that what [ __ ] is that i was
starting to be aware uh
gain awareness that i was being
emotionally manipulated
and how are you being emotionally
manipulated
so son of stuff for example i was
uh forced to do chores
uh
based on the idea that
this is gonna sound completely stupid
and completely out of field but
it was it was a kind of god is watching
you
and taking notes right so if you fail to
do your chores
he's gonna take that as a sign of
rebellion or that maybe you
you can't go into heaven or that kind of
stuff
right that you're supposed to honor your
parents or honor your
your mother and father that kind of
stuff and it was
basically yeah it was coercion
and why do you think that that sounds
stupid
good question i have no idea okay so let
me ask
no no okay wait okay i remember now so
it sounds a bit it smells a bit like uh
entitlement you know like
i could have i suppose
no no it's like first world uh
cold life you know like
worse things could have happened to me
than being coerced
to do my chores right
okay like i could have been coerced into
child prostitution for example which
did not happen to me thank god
yeah so i it's interesting i'm hearing
some
you know a couple of things here so one
is like i wonder if you say it sounds
stupid because i i don't think it
it doesn't sound stupid to me at all it
sounds like you know you are in a cult
so of course you're going to be like
forced to do things that are
emotionally like you know based on
emotional minifigures yeah but it sounds
like a kind of an odd thing to complain
about like it's not such a big deal
right you're first forced to do tours so
what
yeah so i i think i feel like most
people would say gain some perspective
kid
yeah so i it gets me to my question is
do you feel stupid
no okay
and when you say most people would say
gain some perspective kid like what
you know that that sounds why do you
think people would say that
oh because i look at myself from the
outside and i try to
i see things objectively i guess
yeah so has when you've shared this
stuff with people on the outside has
anyone told you that
i've never shared it with anyone well oh
not this specific detail i haven't
shared it no
okay and because i
you know i know it's this is going to
sound kind of weird saurian but i think
that your attempts to be objective are
actually the most subjective thing that
you do
completely you're right you know and
it's interesting because when you when
you talk when you
think about like i want to just like
notice and like
okay so so it's not objectivity it's
subjectivity
from a second point of view yep so i
think that's the view with which you
judge yourself
it's you judging yourself on the outside
because i don't think that like at least
i mean i could be wrong here and i'm not
really paying attention to twitch chat
but like
at least i'm i'm sort of feeling very
very strongly that like i don't
fault you for anything that happened but
what i'm detecting from you is that like
maybe you beat yourself up a little bit
for like
falling for their emotional manipulation
and like who are you to complain because
you know other other people in the cult
got child prostitution and you got out
early and your parents taught you two
languages so like
who are you to complain
yeah okay so it sounds like i i fault
myself
or somehow blame myself for uh
being part of the cult yeah wasting my
time basically
yeah that's a good way to put it what do
you think no
okay uh and here's here's why here's my
my explanation
correct me if i'm wrong so
after the cold when i left i
felt a grave sense of loss
um i felt like my
most of my life or my entire life had
been stolen from stolen from me
yeah um and
uh i felt very very bitter i suppose you
could say
and when did you start to feel like it
had been stolen from you
right after i left okay
probably okay probably not the exact
same day i left
but in the next two years and
and so i mean it sounds like you left at
18. so you are unhappy
with like something about needing to do
chores and being guilted
how did you make the decision to leave
i don't know i suppose i just didn't
like being coerced
and i told when i was
on the on my 18th birthday i went
to my pastor i told them
i'm an atheist and i went to my
parents and i told them i'm an atheist
they accepted it so really
yes what did they say
well my dad was like you're 18. so do
whatever the [ __ ] you want
did he use the word [ __ ] there like was
he upset
probably not probably not no he wasn't
upset
but here's the thing i later discovered
that my parents had actually left the
cult when i was 15.
they were just continuing with the
culture i guess
uh of child rearing after they left
like they dumped all the books all the
cultist material aside
when i was 15 three years earlier but
they continued to use the same
manipulative
techniques they had learned from the
cult interesting
how do you understand i suppose that
played a role
in their accepting my leaving the cult
yeah because i mean it's it's strange
right when i think about you know
life i mean like multi-generation cults
like in a kid comes out at 18 and says
i'm leaving i i imagine based on you
know i don't really have any experience
with cults but
yes but you've read the stories right
yeah so i'd imagine that your parents
would like you know freak out i've
certainly
you know worked with people who have had
like very religious upbringings and they
sort of tell their parents hey like
you know i'm not really into this and
then their parents will like
flip out we'll ostracize them we'll like
you know like don't you understand what
you're doing to us
and to everyone around you like it's
such a bit like you know and i'm it's
kind of weird that your parents were
sort of okay with it
i consider myself lucky in the extreme
yes
yeah so you consider yourself lucky but
like what do you think about them
tossing out the books but still
continuing to do the emotional
manipulation
wow i mean my parents are a little bit
feel like they're simpletons
what does that mean like the reason for
leaving the cult
was dumb what was their reason for
feeling
leaving the cult i was
they received the sign from god did you
believe it
and what was their sign from god the
sign from god
was my younger sister got
sick to the point where she was
uh i'm not gonna share something oh sure
of course yeah um and and
why do you think she got my younger sis
got really really [ __ ] sick
and the cult had this tradition like
people inside the cult were taught that
if anything negative
happens to you it happens for a reason
right that god is punishing you in some
way
right if you got a cold god would be
punishing you
you had to pray and seek his guidance
right um and i think
that is where my mom got the idea that
she should leave the cult because my
sister was so [ __ ] sick
interesting and you think that that's a
stupid reason
yeah okay how do you feel about your
parents
i love them um
[Music]
i also think they're dumb sure are you
angry with them
so i was angry with them in the first
four years
and then i forgave them what were you
angry with them for
for having raised me in a cult that's a
damn good answer
well said and
and then how did you how did you find
how did you find the ability to forgive
them
i don't know i i do remember
what what's the mental process the
experience that led me to forgive them
so i think
i had an experience where
i started to see evidence that my hate
was ruining my life can you help us
understand that
okay so i was extremely bitter and
extremely angry
about everything that had happened
inside the cult
and like i felt like 18 years of my life
had been wasted
i lost most of the opportunities
to learn things and
i felt like most of it had been coerced
like ed it was not my fault
and i remember going on a date with a
chick
and she noticed
that i was very hateful inside and uh i
think i think
the sign of it was i attacked
uh an indigenous person
that was selling trying to sell candy to
me on the street
and i attacked them and i told them
to go kill themselves
right and my date was like no you can't
do that just
stop we're we're done the date is over
right
and then i went back to my place
i spent the entire night in reflection
and then i came to realize my conclusion
was
my hate is ruining my life
right so i did a 180
and first things i did forgive my
parents i told
my parents i forgive or gave them and
then i
tried i started
i started trying altruism
or helping people with no strings
attached provided they
didn't ask for my help
okay and what was your experience of
that
[Music]
he became a pretty strong hell belief
until
like a few days ago
what happened a few days ago okay
someone
so there's this ego this ego what
construal what does that mean
so a construal is a symbol right
like a phrase okay and
it represents your ego okay
and you talk about this all the time
right ego uh
when eel conflicts with emotions ego
wins and when emotions conflict with
logic
emotions went right okay sure
and this altruism thing of helping
people with no strength attached was my
ego
and it was it was ruining my life
how so i was giving until i had nothing
to get
and a few weeks ago i started to hit
like rock bottom
rock bottom because i started sleeping
on the floor
because i just i couldn't help myself
but
just help people i guess
so what does that have to do with
sleeping on the floor
well sleeping on the floor is
uncomfortable i guess right
i have no i don't have enough money to
buy myself a mattress
okay and then but
i sort of settle into it i start to feel
comfortable or
what's what's not comfortable content i
have
i've learned contentment shall we say
do you find that you're more content
like the more you kind of deprive
yourself of stuff like does it feel
like perversely good to like help people
to the point where you don't have enough
money to buy a mattress
yes or not enough money to pay the bills
and stuff like that
and then
a friend recently uh
argued me out of that value or that ego
like he made an art he presented a
logical argument
that my ego control was unethical
that by helping people
until i have nothing to give i'm
actually helping
bad people gain power
because i'm losing power by helping
others
interesting so so not the person that
you're helping but some other
the more the less power you have
if i yes if i start to help to a point
where i'm losing
power then i'm not i'm
[Music]
i'm not making as much of as of an
impact as i possibly could
sure sure right yeah
and he argued it was unethical
and so i mean you're sort of saying that
a logical argument kind of brought you
out of this so what's going on with your
ego
yeah so i have uh that that's
interesting that's interesting i
have an ego that says i must have a
logical explanation for everything i do
okay so this is how
logic trump's emotion okay in my case
because my it's my ego
how do you feel about being so
altruistic
that feels good i guess but
no it's that's irrelevant um
how do i feel about being so altruistic
that's a good question
i'm not sure zorian do you feel stupid
for being so altruistic
yes yes i beat myself up for it yep
we noticing a theme here
i beat myself up for things yes
definitely all the time yeah absolutely
right
and i know where it comes from i can
tell you i know you i know you do so
tell me
so i am afraid
of opportunity cost
okay opportunity cost
drives terror to me
yep i think that makes a lot yeah
and can you see where that comes from
sure what's your name
um you're sure you want me to answer
first
okay i was making i was like i'm happy
to
but but i i think that we'll learn more
from you than we will from me okay fair
enough
you're absolutely right this is an
education session so
hold on pause for a second zorian let's
think about what's happening right now
i'm happy to give you an answer it makes
a lot of sense to me that you're
terrified of opportunity
um and and
i'm happy to share what i think about
that but
i just want to make sure that it felt
like you've never you never asked me
before like we've been talking about a
lot of stuff
this is the first time that you're like
asking me about something
so i almost feel like it's a test of
sorts
and i'm happy to take the test and pass
her no no it's not it's not a test it's
not a test i have a
habit of asking people to make an
educated guess about things because i'm
a teacher
okay do you want to teach me i can guess
no okay okay
my fear of opportunity cost comes
from my parents moving around
a lot when i was a kid how so
when i was very very young let's say
nine to ten years old
i would go out into the neighborhood and
make friends with
kids and i would go
i would grow kind of attached to the
neighborhood
and then my parents would move and that
was
unpleasant it was it meant losing my
friends
forever right
that was like irreversible and bad
so i because this happened so often
i started to pay attention
to any signs that we might be moving
okay and my parents could be planning a
move
okay and when that happened i felt
afraid
okay yeah so what i would say
um zorian can i share my answer
sure so i think it's similar but i think
that when you say you're terrified
of opportunity costs i i think it's more
of like what i would
sort of detect from that is like a sense
of grief and loss really not
really grief but more loss that you've
had you've you've had so much taken away
from you
that like everything that you do like
it's almost like you've had
so much taken away from you that like
you don't really
like you like every decision that you
make now like has to be weighed very
very heavily
because it's sort of like you've already
used up
all of your freebies and so like you
know you're on the verge of getting
knocked out of the tournament
like every single time like every
decision you make is like the last
decision that you get to make and if you
screw
up i'm terrified of irreversible
mistakes yep right
and and so so so i want to just point
something out zorin so i i think that
do do you have a sense of how you're
feeling right now
no okay
so uh um
something like some people might call
this alexa plymouth when i was
uh what i remember when i was like
around 17 18 19
i felt like i was a robot
i felt like i had no feelings
it was weird um
but then over time as i reflected a lot
i came to realize that i do have
emotions they're just
kind of identifying them becomes
it's a little bit [ __ ] it takes time
okay so how how do you feel about that
don't ask me i
[Laughter]
okay so how do i feel
about so what hold on so we just got
something there right you say don't ask
me
right so when i ask you how does that
make you feel
i don't have information yep so when
someone get your teacher right so when
someone asks a question and and someone
doesn't have an answer how does that
person feel
wait wait wait can you say that again
sure so you're a teacher right
yes so when someone asks a question and
someone else
doesn't have an answer how does the
person without the answer feel
so when a student asks me a question
nope
sure just in general when when i ask
when there's a
someone who asks a question and someone
doesn't have an answer how does the
person without the answer feel
who is the person without an answer the
person who asked or the person who
doesn't have an
answer have the answer to respond the
have doesn't have the answer to respond
i don't know so i would say that when
people ask me questions especially when
i'm like
you know in school and i didn't have an
answer i felt stupid
oh okay what do you think
i don't have an answer no
i don't feel stupid for being ignorant
okay
so i think this is what's kind of
confusing so here's here's what i'm sort
of
getting from you can i share some
thoughts what sure
you're laughing
what what is that
i don't know so if you look at necessary
conditions for laughter
unexpected comes to mind
and it needs to be
i don't know
so it needs to be something unexpected
that is seen as
not not harmful yeah okay so sorry we're
going to take a step back because i
think there's a lot of stuff going on in
this conversation
that i think can be hard to follow so
we're going to try to i'm going to try
to share with you what i understand okay
i could be completely wrong here um
so there there's some weird there's some
weirdness
and i i get the sense that you're
smiling but you actually are feeling
deeply deeply uncomfortable
what do you think i don't feel anxiety
i'm not yeah so i i like when i look at
your eyes i don't think you're having a
good time
like when i look at your face i see you
smiling
but i see a lot of tension but i really
don't think that this is
normally when we see someone smiling
like this we think like oh is this
person having fun
i don't think you're having fun are you
having fun
okay so it's a feeling of euphoria do
you feel euphoria right now
peony kind of genie okay so when we have
a big smile and we feel a tiny bit of
euphoria i think there are other
emotions in there
and part of what makes this really yeah
so
so i'm just going to toss a couple of
things out the first zorian is that
because i think it's like really
how can i i was about to say strange but
i think
there's a lot going on in this
conversation that is not being talked
about
so it's sort of like there's like a
stage but then there's like this whole
audience on the outside that we're not
really addressing
and i think that's part of what is is a
little bit unusual about this
conversation
because i think you have a lot of stuff
going on on the inside which you've done
such an amazing job
of keeping at the borders of like your
consciousness
so i know it sounds weird so the first
thing that i want to do zorian is like
really commend you
um because i i think that you've really
shown
to me so like i know that you know there
are all kinds of psychological impacts
from cults and stuff like that but
i think it's really hard to grow up in a
cult and like have
you know the fortitude to leave when
you're 18
to notice some of the impacts that it's
had on you to really because like like
it's because if we really think about it
like you know you kind of
got screwed and you have to be a little
bit careful about your self-judgment in
terms of like you know if you look at
like the average person they were given
so many opportunities like
you know people read them bedtime
stories like their parents read the
bedtime stories like their parents would
go on trips
and you got to like there was just
really basic stuff right like
most people get the opportunity to make
friends and keep friends and really
really like
basic human stuff that was really taken
away from you at a young age
and and so i'm sure that there's a part
of you so i think there's this like
thread
of like stupidity and judgmentalness
which you have towards yourself which
you try to push away through logic
but the interesting thing is that when
you talk about the construction between
like logic overcoming emotion
that still means that the emotion is
there your logic may win
but like really i think moving forward
is like sure
like logic needs to win like let's say
it's 51 49
but then you're still like even if you
can overcome that feeling of stupidity
what i think really like
what i what i what i see is like the
next step of your growth
is not letting logic win but not having
logic
need to win right it's really truly
letting go of some of these things like
ego and emotions and stuff like that
and you're even doing it now right so
there's been a change a little bit
in in the way that you're kind of
looking there's a change in the way like
you seem more relaxed
i don't know exactly what's going on but
i just noticed you had like a big sigh
which i think is good yes
so i think you've managed to it's
interesting because i think you've like
been forced to come up with your own
methods of survival in recovery
of trying to build a life out of the
shambles that you were given
and i think everything i have i invented
on my own absolutely
and i think it's it's truly amazing that
you've come as far as you have
and at the same time i think that you
know a little help will go a long way
and and that there are some things that
i think it's worth sort of
re-conceptualize or like rethinking and
i think i feel really good about this
because i think you
you've demonstrated so clearly that if
you're given building blocks you can
really build something
so really what i want to do is not
really give you answers but give you
kind of building blocks let you play
around with them and let you see if
things are going better okay that's all
nice
um so the first thing is that i think
we're seeing a lot of what calls in
what what i would call inappropriate
affect or discongruent affect
so the display of emotion that you have
is kind of like
not doesn't jive with like what we're
actually talking about
really right so yeah right because
you're like smiling a whole lot
but like we're not talking about
anything funnies organ
nothing happens to me it's funny to me
yeah so
let's think about that right so so and
this is what sometimes i think
is going to make it hard for you to
connect
with other people maybe yes
yeah right so like what's funny about
what we're talking about
like that's unexpected what's unexpected
because you seem like you're at the
verge of tears to me
okay so
[Music]
i feel like my unconscious brain comes
up with predictions that are different
from
most people's predictions
yep and
that may be from having a distorted
world view
from growing up in a cult or building my
own
world view after leaving
okay i guess
so i mean there are unexpected things
happen all the time it doesn't make them
funny
i don't know what what what makes
something funny is when the unexpected
is
harmless
okay so here's an alternate hypothesis
for you okay
so sometimes we use humor as a defense
mechanism
okay okay this humor might be a defense
yeah so i i think it is and i i think
it's it actually is like
it can make it
strange for people to like observe this
conversation because like
there's a lot of inappropriate affect
right
and it's so easy to bring out like i
mean
if if i didn't know better i thought i'd
think that you were like
listening to a comedian on stage with
like how much you're laughing
and then the more that we point it out
the funnier it becomes
so as we call attention to things and we
bring awareness to things it becomes
funnier and funnier and funnier
and generally speaking we're bringing
emotion out of you but it's weird
because you've got such a
fat defense mechanism that we just get
laughter
right you can see it like it's just
bubbling up like you can't even control
it it's like what
i'm just saying zory and you're laughing
right now and you're like
that's so funny that's so it's not funny
bro
okay and uh so right now
um tears are welling up in my eyes
yeah so you you does that have any
meaning
well i mean what kind of tears are they
they're not they're not tears of joy
yeah i feel like
yeah right so i i it might be suppressed
emotion it might be
uh some kind of defense like in
in order to avoid falling into a crisis
where i just
yeah yeah so i it's okay bro do you feel
like
what you're doing is okay or is there
some part of you that you're overcoming
that is telling you like this is dumb
and you should know how to do this
you know so if you're saying i may have
self-esteem issues
that's a no no that's not what i'm
talking about
what i'm talking about is right now in
this moment is there a part of you that
feels stupid and another part of you
that's telling yourself that you don't
need to feel stupid it's completely
understandable
no there's no such dialogue inside my
head okay
so the the first thing but but when you
said
it's okay bro i
almost felt like i could cry yup that's
why i said it
right so i think this is where like how
do you understand that
why i kind of get emotional
when you say
this is you you give a sign that this is
a safe place it's okay
i don't understand really i don't
understand the relationship between
those two things
sure i'm just gonna cry a little bit on
my own if that's okay with you
sure go ahead so
what what does it mean to you when i say
it's okay
it's okay to show the repressed emotions
that
are wrong
no i don't know yeah i i don't watch you
i don't know what
it is it's stupid yeah no it's it's good
right so i think you're very good at
educated guesses because they're logical
and i hate saying wrong because that
could make you feel stupid but but i i
don't know i i love being told i'm wrong
i love it it's
it's okay it's fine okay sorry
so what i'm trying to do is i'm trying
to accept you
okay okay i got you how does it feel to
be accepted
i don't need it there it is
right why don't you need it
i haven't thought about that because you
have an answer for me real quick there
no laughter you don't need it
yeah and that's the sad that's the
saddest damn thing
really yes absolutely
because you you're someone who's grown
up without acceptance
and so you've learned to live and
function
my parents loved me unconditionally is
that not acceptable
so that's a logical answer right like
you're saying like if parents love you
unconditionally isn't that acceptance
so let me toss something else out at you
and i'm sure you'll swat this aside
but like when your parents leave a cult
at the age of 15
and [ __ ] leave you in it they don't
tell you
and they continue emotionally
manipulating you like you
worked up the courage to leave the cult
at 18 and they had done it three years
ago
and they left you behind so
what do you think about that
i hadn't thought about it that way i'm
gonna be honest uh
not consciously yeah no no
it feels a little bit depressing what
does that mean
i don't know so it's gonna take time
okay so
here here's what i'm thinking zorian so
the first thing is i think you're doing
phenomenally well
um i think that it's truly amazing how
you've learned to become
independent and survive on your own but
i think it's like really challenging
right because you don't need anyone's
acceptance but boy do you want it
because everyone wants it right you
learn to live without a basic human need
and when i start to demonstrate
something to you unconditionally when i
don't qualify anything that your
your intellect can get around when i
just say
it's okay bro yes what is okay i'm not
telling you
why is it okay i'm not telling you what
are we even talking about i'm not
telling you
there's nothing for your intellect to
latch onto with that statement
which is why it sort of sinks deep yes
you're right
right and even the you're right stuff
like you got to be careful because
that's your intellect being like oh that
is correct
now we understand the equation you're
like stepping out of the emotion
and then when i catch you in the act
your other defense mechanism steps in
and it's like
[Laughter]
so do you think my intellect is also a
defense mechanism
abs [ __ ] lutely amazing
right and it's it's it is for everyone
and because here's the thing like zorian
you've got so much stuff to protect
against on the inside
because let's remember i don't know if
you knew this but you were raised in the
cult that was incredibly
emotionally manipulative and probably
quite traumatic
so there's gonna be a lot down there and
it's not like it it's a testament to
your intellect that your intellect has
grown
so much your ego has grown so much but
also makes like let's face it bro
really stupid decisions like you're
sleeping on your floor because you go
out of your way to help people and i
don't doubt that there's a
certain kind of logic to that and and
hopefully you don't feel bad i'm really
careful about the word stupid but i'm
trying to actually
really walk a title up here so if you
call me stupid
i suspect i highly suspect i will not
feel bad i think so i think so as well
in this situation because of the way in
which in any situation
okay sure if you say so
yeah so just because you don't feel bad
doesn't mean it doesn't hurt
right so if you're especially if you're
lexa-thymic
but this is where i think you've like
you've like like it's it's fascinating
because i
what i see is like you you know i
imagine someone who's shipwrecked on an
island
and has to like build everything for
themselves
yeah and that's what i see you as i see
you as like some guy who
through like ingenuity grit and a lot of
hard work has constructed
a water wheel in a rain catching thing
and constructed like
fish traps and like all these other
things to like help you survive
and at the same time all over again
i'm not familiar with the reference but
anyway
so so so this is where like i also think
that there's a lot
of work that you still have ahead of you
and some of it is going to be tough
because
what's happening is that you have like
adaptations on adaptations on
adaptations
which are fine like they're good they've
helped you and things like that
but at the same time i think that for
example like you're still very angry at
your parents
like you've forgiven them but i think
that like
like you're still incredibly angry with
them which can be
hard when they love you so much which
can be hard
when you've forgiven them which can be
hard but like i think it's
it's tough man and i've noticed yeah
i think it's understandable so then the
other thing is that you may not be angry
at your parents you may just be [ __ ]
pissed at the world
and now we have to we get into really
tricky territory because
i think you've got to learn how to feel
emotions that don't do anything for you
because a lot of times when i see people
who are hyper intellectual
what happens is they're like there's no
use to feeling that emotion i can't do
anything about it
and if they can't do anything about it
they sort of discard it
they're like there's no point they bury
it the thing is the emotion doesn't
really like go away just sort of like
you know get saved on some remote corner
of your hard drive where it just like
kind of lingers
and we're seeing a lot of things that
you know sometimes you have these like
drastic emotional
reactions that you sort of recognize
that you have hate within you once again
really really awesome you know thing
that you figured out it's amazing
really i'm i'm really impressed sorry
with how far you've come on your own
and at the same time i still think that
there's like a lot of stuff
like going you know
underneath like i mean you kind of say
that your parents are simpletons which
sort of makes sense
but also like they came out of the cult
were raised in the cult and emphasized
education for you
i think they had second thoughts about
the cult a long time
you know like they in the way that you
were raised
they were looking for an excuse to leave
i mean i think they realized a long time
i i think they realized that they didn't
want to like raise you
in the way that they were raised but
anyway it gets complicated yeah
definitely definitely so they were both
orphans
yeah so so i'm not quite sure you know
what's going on there but
um you know you know
there's just there's just a lot of stuff
like going on here zorya like it's
it's it's hard to describe but some of
the inappropriate affects some of the
hyper intellectualization
and and i think that you're not i hope
i'm not making you feel
kind of like naked or anything like that
but but i i think that you know you
really do have because it's it's kind of
weird like i think whatever logical
system you're using to that whines you
sleeping up on the floor
out of altruism may make sense but it
feels to me like
there's a blind spot somewhere in there
and i think basically the blind spot
is is is like some amount of these like
emotions which
i don't doubt that you've genuinely
forgiven your parents but like i also
think there's just like a roiling
massive emotion like somewhere in there
and and just yeah
so don't you think if after four years
of being
extremely angry inventing at the world
and
uh like all the negative emotions
come out and eventually dissipate
yes and no so this is where you know the
we haven't even gotten to what the
psychological impact is and and
potentially what you
are dealing with now but so i think that
like i kind of think about them as like
little spawning machines
that will generate thoughts so there's
like a portal that like you know
thoughts are coming out of
and you can vent the individual thought
but the portal can still be down there
and and i think that you've done some of
the process of digesting that but just
the the degree of your inappropriate
affect suggests to me that there's some
kind of negative emotion
that is under there um
i see what i see what you mean right
yeah i said it you got it so
and and it's just like because it you
know sure
you can logically say that things are
unexpected and that's why they're funny
but like
you know all kinds of unexpected stuff
happens that isn't harmful
but we don't i mean maybe the other
option other thing on the
differential diagnosis here is that
maybe you're enlightened because
sometimes enlightened people will laugh
at all manner of things
um oh [ __ ] see that's a genuine laugh
right like that's actually funny
i can see it in your eyes this time um
what what do you think about all this
[Music]
oh i just realized so the other thing is
that have you forgiven yourself
i'm very bad at forgiving myself yeah so
this is
maybe this is the piece that i was
missing is that like we talked about
forgiving your parents and you may not
have anger towards themselves but if we
look at this sort of like
you know your inability to forgive
yourself and like how frankly how stupid
you feel
like i know that you don't consciously
own that you feel stupid but we can
definitely detect a theme
of self-blame yes so when i make a
mistake
uh i feel self-loathing
right so but
how do you understand that so it's a
certain kind of mistake it's a
irreversible mistake something that
costs me an opportunity
and
[Music]
okay so i tend to go into
i'm not sure if i'm answering your
question but i tend to go into swearing
fits
to suppress blaming uh feeling bad about
things that like mistakes i've done
so okay there's i don't know if it was
the
answer to my question but boy do i like
it more than anything else that you
could have said
okay so so i think there's a lot there
right so you say you go into swearing
fits what are you swearing at
myself okay so like
like this is where like uh and this is
no this is gonna sound weird but like
the way that you feel about yourself
when did you start to feel that way
about yourself
the way i feel about myself what's the
way i feel about myself
let me just jump to it so you know i
think you left the cult but the cult
didn't leave you
right what i'm hearing here is that like
like the way that when they talk to you
about
your doing your chores and things like
that and like god is watching and like
you know it's not okay and like you're
not worthy and or maybe you guys were
chosen ones
and it's it's sort of like i i could i
could connect those two dots
that once again is a hypothesis for you
that like you know the self-loathing
because when i think about when you talk
about emotional manipulation and
guilting and stuff like that like i
think you've
carried it with you yes so
so i'm gonna just keep going
some of the cult stuff is so [ __ ]
painful that i've avoided talking about
it for 10 years
okay i just i just tried to forget and i
push it into the corner
of my mind that i i like i put it on
their locking key and i do not talk
about it
how do you feel about yourself for doing
that
i i have no ability to answer that
question do you feel weak
asking that question to a person with
alexa time is a little bit
it's okay i i have no ability to
identify if i feel weak
do you feel stupid when you say does it
feel stupid
yeah is it
an okay answer to say it rings a bell
sure
zorian any answer is an okay answer
so here's what i would say you set it
aside because it's so painful i
completely understand i mean i don't
complete i really don't understand at
all to be honest
but here's what i would say it's okay
bro
whatsoever you do with it it's okay
everything that you've accomplished is
fantastic
and the fact that you haven't
accomplished things is also fine
you've missed out on opportunities
you've made irreversible mistakes
it's okay bro you're allowed to make
mistakes
i'm not
i'm not allowed to make mistakes
why not there's the smile again
even if you don't allow yourself to make
mistakes i'll allow you to make mistakes
okay so mistakes
cost time that's how i see it
sure and i don't have enough time some
of my time has been
stolen i suppose so yes the remainder of
the time that's left
is more valuable when you put it into
that perspective
you can put it into that perspective all
you want to it's not one that i'm going
to adopt
okay but irrespective of how logically
correct it is
right and this is where like like zorin
what you really
learn gotta learn how to do and it's
gonna be really hard because it goes
against
everything because you're trying to make
up for lost time
you're trying to fix the past if you can
maximize the time that you have left at
the end of the day the scales will be
even
but here's the crazy thing like you
can't ever make up for what's happened
in the past
yes i can only compensate no the same
[ __ ] thing it's a synonym
okay fine right so that's that's what
you need to let go of and it's hard to
admit that like you got screwed bro
and that that maybe you blame yourself
for it maybe you blame your parents for
it maybe you blame the universe maybe
you blame god whatever
because god's off the table because
you're an atheist and you've learned to
forgive your parents
so who's left where does the
responsibility lie
and now we see where the self-loathing
comes from
right because it's kind of strange like
this is a really interesting
like issue that kids have is before kids
develop theory of mind which is the sort
of
understanding that other human beings
exist they feel like they are in a
single
player game yep and so like all of that
fault is yours and what i'm seeing from
you time and time and time again
is like harsh harsh
lack of acceptance towards yourself
i mean we we knew that before you told
us that you swear
to keep feelings at bay okay
right and so like then you tell us like
an hour into the conversation that i
swear at myself
and i beat myself up and it's like yeah
okay i think we saw that coming
and and so this is where it's it's going
to be really challenging
zorian because i think and and this is
where
you know i'm going to toss something out
like i think you've got to let those
feelings out
and and this is the really challenging
even harder than that i think you can
let the feelings out
problem is that i don't think you can do
it with someone
i don't know if you can tolerate showing
the ugliest
and worst parts of yourself to another
human being
and the hardest part about that because
i just did it just a tiny bit
is like them accepting you for being
all that loathing that you feel towards
yourself
uncovering it is the first hardest thing
uncovering it with someone else is the
second hardest thing
okay and then even then you've got an
easy out go ahead
you're right i i do not feel accepted
yeah i feel like i need to be accepted
but i'm too afraid
to show the part of myself and
because there's a fear of rejection nope
it's not a fear of rejection what is it
then it's a fear of acceptance
my friend really i think so how
because if they reject you is that new
no it's not can you survive that
rejection
yes absolutely because you [ __ ] do it
to yourself
every single day okay okay what you fear
is acceptance what you're terrified of
what gets you going
is not me telling you that you're stupid
as you've told us when you say you're
stupid when i if i call you stupid
you're like
doesn't touch me it's when i say it's
okay bro that you're like [ __ ]
you're right okay okay you're right
abuse zorian you grew up in a cult
your abuse resistance is 100
oh i see
[Music]
it's unconditional love it's acceptance
it's admitting that you don't need to
change
that it's okay to let go of your
opportunities that you don't need to be
perfect
yes all of those things that you're
saying right now those make me feel like
i want to cry
how do you feel about that
i feel good about it i'm happy for you
zorian because it's like it's a painful
journey but it's a good one
and it's worth the opportunity cost
i don't i feel like it's not even a
worthwhile question to ask how do i get
uh how do i overcome this barrier
good great question why isn't that a
worthwhile question
sounds stupid there it is you see it
always lurking every step forward that
you try to take the question that you
need to ask the important question
there's your mind
it's stupid don't do it zorian it's a
dumb question
so how do you move forward it's the most
important question to ask
so and and then then we get into a
really tricky thing because if i say
it's the most important question to ask
maybe then you feel stupid for like
hesitating to ask it so it's a dumb
question because
it should have a i suspect the answer is
pretty obvious right and there there it
is again
okay so now like hopefully like twitch
chat is following at this point maybe
you're following
because like do you see how no matter
how we cut this problem
the conclusion is like it's a dumb
question to ask because it's obvious and
if it's obvious then you are
an idiot there it is like like it's it's
a thing like your your logic
is falling underneath this
like emotional or like some scott or
like the like
you see like it doesn't matter how you
cut this pie like the conclusion is
always gonna be like zorian's an idiot
right and if i say that to you it
doesn't bother you at all because you
tell yourself all the time like what
difference does it make if like another
person tells you you're an idiot because
you tell yourself all the time no big
deal yes
i'm a big son i don't think you're a big
idiot
matter if it's true huh does it matter
what you think
if it's true
that's it doesn't matter what you think
if i know it's true maybe
exactly right so so there it is again
like you're discounting what i say
you're like swatting it away like
because where so what's the conclusion
from that statement
when i say i don't think you're an idiot
you're like
that's not true he doesn't know what
he's talking about
and the conclusion is that you are an
idiot there it is we can play this game
as many rounds as you want to go we're
always going to end up in the same damn
place
which in turn can make you feel even
stupider so it's like
it's just not productive like well
there's a certain amount of
productivity there so what what do you
do about it that's a good question
okay okay so it's like even if i call
you smart you think you're stupid and
even if i call you stupid you think
you're
it's like you just can't win and that
doesn't make you stupid it's just that's
the that's the emotional thing that
you've worked so hard to bury
that it's like there and it's like
clogging up your heart you're like this
hidden folder
on your hard drive that's clogging it up
but like you it's hidden so you don't
see it
but it's action is always going to be
there so the first thing you've got to
do is
awareness so i think zory this is
something that you're gifted at the more
that you're able to notice this pattern
in your mind
the more it starts to dissolve yes
that awareness will start the process of
emotional digestion
second thing is that you say you haven't
talked to anyone you haven't told anyone
so like
that's a good place to start right so
this is where you know i'd highly
recommend
so sometimes i talk about our coaching
program but this is definitely a case
where i would recommend you see a real
therapist
right like like like go and and i it
sounds like your financial situation
isn't maybe the best right now so i
don't know exactly what resources are
available to you
but i i think that you know this is
definitely something where i would go
and
and talk to someone right because i
think that
you were conditioned to loathe yourself
that's what cults do yes you're right
and so it's interesting but to learn
how to love yourself is like
difficult like conditioning it doesn't
matter
like all conditioning is conditioning
that we can condition you to load
yourself
we can condition you to love yourself
and sometimes like what you need from
people
like because people are going to show
you right like i'm going to make these
weird statements
which aren't logical like it's okay
bro like good job zorian and you're like
good job at what
and i'm like everything anything i don't
know
all of it like it's those things like
like
someone's gonna have to show you and
sometimes people are lucky enough to
find this in a romantic relationship
although i wouldn't recommend it
you know it's like a roll of a dice kind
of thing
that you know like you need to be sure
like taught how to accept yourself
and it's going to be these little
moments where like you're learning your
brain your neurons are rewiring right
now as these emotions come up as you
start crying and things like that like
there's rewiring going on in your brain
as we speak
so you just need to continue doing that
rewiring
and then like one day you're gonna wake
up and like you're gonna when you make a
mistake
like there's gonna be like another
dialogue that pops in
up in your head which is like man that
was kind of stupid
but it's okay i'm never gonna argue with
you
about whether it's stupid or not stupid
that's an argument that i can never win
so the current way i avoid
or get over beating myself up
is whenever i catch that feeling
whenever i start to insult myself
i replace it with
i what i like i write down what i
learned from that experience
nope incorrect okay
you don't want to replace it that's the
very opposite of acceptance
you see that if we're replacing it
you're not accepting it it's
subtle really tricky so when it happens
but i never load myself again after i do
that
so why does happen no no so so this is
when you load yourself
you should accept yourself for loathing
yourself
okay right don't just get stuck at the
loading layer notice that
hey this is me like beating myself up
again and like
it's something that i'm gonna work on
but it's okay it's okay for me to feel
this way
okay oh because when you load yeah
let me just finish this point when you
load yourself it's the opposite of
acceptance
yes right so like if even if we it's
subtle really subtle
if we replace the loathing what we're
doing is still not accepting ourselves
so just unconditionally like
accept whatever you are right i'm not
saying that you aren't stupid what i'm
saying is that it's okay
it's okay it's okay it's okay
okay so what's the point of this
why should i accept this
what are the benefits let me think about
that question for a second
like is this the path to enlightenment
this question feels like a trap to me
no it's not but oh i think it may be
hold on
okay i'm trying to decide if i'm reading
too much into this
when you say what's the point of this
yes
okay i'm gonna just answer so i think
the point is because like
i don't think you have to live this way
anymore i don't want you to live this
way anymore i think it's it's incredibly
sad and devastating
that you've been living this way this
long
okay okay
you okay that's okay
i could use a little bit of reassurance
it's okay let me yeah
what i'm thinking about that
zorin i kind of feel like we are at
i want you to really like sort of sit
with how far we've gotten
i'm a little bit concerned because that
that other the next the last question
you asked i think is like opening up a
new thing do
so i'm sort of feeling like this is a
good place to stop
at least from my exploration now if you
have questions i'm more than happy to
answer them but like
i think how far we've come is actually
like a like i want you to sort of
not go any farther than this because i
think this is the thing
okay does that make sense no
okay so like i think that there are
further conversations that need to be
had
but this piece you need to work on first
i think okay and i don't think any
amount of other
intellectual understanding is going to
like really
improve anything okay
does this would you say a good
step in the right would say it's step in
the right direction
if i get rid of my
intellectual ego sort of
because i think once again getting rid
of replacing
is not what we want to do so your
intellectual ego
will subside when it no longer needs to
be there
so it's not about getting rid of the
intellectual ego it's about no longer
needing it to protect you
right so so right now your intellectual
ego is like the tool that you fashioned
that allows you to like start to put
your life back together so i'd say don't
get rid of it
it's there for a reason okay but
that ego comes at the cost of like
burying all this stuff and this weird
self-loathing that you have left over
and you can work intellectually with
your ego as long as you want to i
suspect i mean maybe you can overcome it
i guess
technically you can but i'd say that
they're easier
not easier faster ways that may be
a little bit it's going to be
uncomfortable for you because like you
have you fashioned such a brilliant and
capable intellectual ego that letting it
go and
and like entering a territory where it
can't do its job it can be very scary
but i think ultimately that's what you
need is like
emotional healing
okay
any other questions is getting rid of my
fear
of irreversibility
a path to accepting myself
same problem getting rid replacing
right wait is replacing a better word
nope they're all the same word they're
all synonymous
right so so like like the thing is like
i don't think you need to get rid of
your fear
this is the whole problem is that like
you're always rejecting parts of
yourself
well yeah because i need to improve no
you don't
that's what needs to change it's okay
bro
that is deeply unsettling yep
it feels wrong yep
should i should i navigate to a place
where it feels right
nope to accept
who i am right now and just not want to
move any
more yep
is that the destination you're there's
no destination you're already there
[Music]
what do you mean you're you're great
just the way that you are you don't need
to do a damn things orient
okay so you're saying there is not a
tool i can fashion
[Music]
just sit with your [ __ ] emotions
close your eyes you feel deeply
unsettled don't go anywhere
just sit with that feeling of being
unsettled
you don't already okay
so it's so like what all you need to do
is just sit with it you don't need to do
you need to go anywhere you don't need
to change it
you're great it's not a good idea to
like make it surface
and then sit with it
sure you can make it surface and sit
with it
but okay we sort of did that just now
and i think there's a certain amount of
tolerance you have which will build up
over time
so this is why like i think you should
see a therapist right because the
therapy is
different huh maybe my friends will help
me
yeah so i think this is where like they
can teach you how to learn how to sit
with yourself that's all you need to do
you can't fix that which isn't broken
interesting so i i think what's broken
is that this is very meta
what's broken is
i don't recognize that i don't
need to be fixed
something that's preventing me from
realizing that
yeah that's that's also that's gonna go
like add infant item
because that in and of itself is what's
like you're just i'm
i'm starting with the presumption now
we're getting intellectual that you're
not broken
and you're like what's broken is that i
can't recognize i'm broken and there we
are again
like you can play this game like you can
run circles around me zorin
it feels true yep yep absolutely right
so like
look who isn't alexa thymic anymore it
feels true
absolutely because it's a feeling
you start with the the conclusion
the emotional conclusion that you are
busted in some fundamental way
and so as long as that is there like no
matter how much logic you use you're
going to wind up in the same damn place
so it's like an emotional thing that
needs to happen so i'm gonna leave you
with a different kind of meditation
practice
if that's okay
is it okay if i give you a meditation
practice and we wrap up or do you have
other questions
no i'm fine with it let's let's do it
let's do the meditation
okay i want to give you a colon
because i think that'll a koan is like
one of these paradoxes
um but i have to try to think about i'm
just trying to think about a good koan
so it's like something that meditators
use to try to break themselves
out of this intellectual cycle because
your intellect will like so it's
something that fundamentally doesn't
make sense
um
okay but it doesn't make sense no
there's no trick to it the point is that
you have to abandon all tricks
so this is what i want you to do i want
you to watch
a rock grow
okay i can do that okay just watch your
rock grow
sounds like fun okay good that's the
point
okay well that's sort of what i've got
for you
zorian i didn't mean to hopefully i
wasn't too abrupt with how we ended
things but i really think it's going to
get repetitive and you're actually
moving
further away from like where you need to
be with the more questions that you ask
and maybe that makes sense maybe it
doesn't but you're
now we re-engage your intellectual mind
and all your questions are like i think
we like
we had a couple of wins in there when
you were like this feels deeply
uncomfortable like good
that's what we want right like this
feels wrong
this feel like so like you're becoming
less lexa-thymic over the course of the
conversation which is really good
so now you need to kind of like practice
some of those skills go see a therapist
and watch
watch your rock grow i'm serious like
sit down and just watch it grow
and then pay attention to all the things
that your mind does at first it's like
oh look like
it's this is going to be the trick that
teaches me things and then that's going
to be there for a little while
then you're going to be like actually
this is stupid i'm not the trick isn't
working
and then your mind is going to tell you
to stop and then
you're going to be like no no if i
continue then i'll discover the trick
i'll discover the trick of it
and then you're gonna be frustrated
again you're like there's no stupid
trick
there's no it's dumb
and then like if you continue with it
then hopefully you'll figure it out
but there's no trick and as long as you
think is that there's a trick you won't
find it
right so you're telling me that if i sit
long enough with this eventually i'll
get used to it
nope i don't know what's gonna happen
i'm telling you it's a waste of time and
you should do it anyway
i like that okay right
okay good luck to you zorian and thank
you very much for coming
i hate the fact that it's ending so soon
but yeah
i understand it can feel unsatisfying
but this this is it i hope you don't
view this as an
end i really think like this is an
important beginning
and we're not i'm i'm happy
in a weird way that you feel a little
bit hungry because like that means that
this was good for you and so like
i encourage you to go eat again like
find a therapist seriously
okay take care man see you emma i love
you
love you too
all right chat